What is the difference between compiled and interpreted languages? Static and dynamic? Which is Java, which is JavaScript?
What does a compiler do?
What is a virtual machine?
What is the difference between bytecode and source code files?
Do you need the JDK or the JRE to play minecraft?
Why would you use an IDE as opposed to a simple text editor when writing Java code?
What is the purpose of the out directory?
Why does Java have multiple number data types? Why use one over the other?
Is a string a primative type in Java?
What is the difference between explicit and implicit casting? What are specific examples?
What are some differences between char and String types?
What happens if you store a number in a variable greater than the data type’s constraints?









-- Reading/Research Questions
What is a Java method?

Code that us grouped together that can be used over and over again
Similar to JS functions

Why use additional methods rather than writing all Java code in a main method?

A way to make code more modular.
Easier to test
Simpler to debug

What does it mean to ‘call’ or ‘invoke’ a method?

It causes the statements in a method to "run"

What are six parts of a method definition as explained in the curriculum?

visibility
static/instance
return type
name of method
parameters
body

In what ways do Java methods differ from JS functions?

syntax is different
methods are tied in java to class or an object vs. lone functions in JS
default values require multiple methods vs. syntax in a single function
parameter data type is fixed vs. flexible
methods calls have to relate to a main method in java vs. no method

What is a method signature?

method name + parameter list
add(int x, int y)

What is method overloading?(typically a interview question)

being defined methods with the same name but accept different parameters

Will changing the return type of a method overload it?



What is recursion and what are the differences/pros/cons compared to iteration?



What is a StackOverflowError?






RESEARCH QUESTIONS
What is the difference between static and instance methods/variables?

What is an instance and what is instantiation?

What is an object in Java?

What is a class in Java?

What is the difference between a class and an object?

What is a constructor?

What are some additional uses of the ‘final’ keyword?

What are some uses of the ‘this’ keyword?

What are visibility modifiers?

Why use private visibility?